Dedicated Servers - Netplan link aggregation for Debian 12 / Ubuntu 22.04 (#6958)
ovh/docs: pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/ola-enable-debian12-netplan/guide.en-gb.md

A JNLP program will download. Open the program to enter the IPMI. Log in using valid credentials for the server.

By default, using an OVHcloud template, the NICs will be named either *ethX* or *enoX*. If you are not using an OVHcloud template, you can find the names of your interfaces using the following command:

```bash
ip a
```

> [!primary]
>
> This command will yield numerous "interfaces." If you are having trouble determining which ones are your physical NICs, the first interface will still have the server's public IP address attached to it by default.
>

Once we have determined the names of our two NICs, we will configure NIC bonding in the OS.

### Static IP configuration

Replace the content of `/etc/netplan/50-cloud-init.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
network: 
    version: 2
    ethernets: 
        ens22f0np0:
            match: 
                macaddress: a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:c6
        ens22f1np1:
            match: 
                macaddress: a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:c7
    bonds: 
        bond0:
            # MAC address of the server's main interface
            macaddress: a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:c6
            accept-ra: false
            addresses: 

>                 - 141.94.154.196/32

Reviewer: Bien penser à anonymiser les IP

                - 2001:41d0:254:c400::/56
            routes: 
                - on-link: true
                  to: default
                  via: 100.64.0.1
                - on-link: true
                  to: default
                  via: fe80::1
            nameservers: 
                addresses: 

>                 - 2001:41d0:3:163::1

Reviewer: À ajouter uniquement à la configuration en IP fixe :
```suggestion
                - 213.186.33.99
                - 2001:41d0:3:163::1
```

                transmit-hash-policy: layer3+4
```

### DHCP configuration

Replace the content of `/etc/netplan/50-cloud-init.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
network: 
    version: 2
    ethernets: 
        ens22f0np0:
            match: 
                macaddress: a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:c6
        ens22f1np1:
            match: 
                macaddress: a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:c7
    bonds: 
        bond0:
            # MAC address of the server's main interface
            macaddress: a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:c6
            accept-ra: false
            dhcp4: true
            addresses: 
                - 2001:41d0:254:c400::/56
            routes: 
                - on-link: true
                  to: default
                  via: fe80::1
            nameservers: 
                addresses: 
                - 2001:41d0:3:163::1
            interfaces: 
                - ens22f0np0
                - ens22f1np1
            parameters: 
                mode: 802.3ad
                mii-monitor-interval: 100
                down-delay: 200
                lacp-rate: slow
                transmit-hash-policy: layer3+4
```

### Applying the configuration

> [!primary]

> > The `netplan try`command can't be used with a NIC bond.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `netplan try` command can't be used when configuring bonds.
```

---
title: How to Configure Your NIC for OVHcloud Link Aggregation in Debian 12 (Netplan)
excerpt: Enable OVHcloud Link Aggregation in your Debian 12 server
updated: 2024-10-03
---

## Objective

> OVHcloud Link Aggregation (OLA) technology is designed by our teams to increase your server’s availability, and boost the efficiency of your network connections. In just a few clicks, you can aggregate your network cards and make your network links redundant. This means that if one link goes down, traffic is automatically redirected to another available link.

Reviewer: Ça double aussi la bande passante disponible.

> **This guide explains how to bond your NICs to use them for OLA in Debian 12 (Netplan configuration).**

Reviewer: Cette configuration fonctionne aussi pour Ubuntu 24.04, peut-on faire en sorte que la doc mentionne les deux distributions ?

## Requirements

- [Configuring OVHcloud Link Aggregation in the OVHcloud Control Panel](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/ola-enable-manager)
- Access to the [OVHcloud Control Panel](/links/manager)

> [!warning]
>

> > You will need to download the ifenslave package on the server before enabling OLA in the OVHcloud Control Panel or API. To do so, please use the following command:

Reviewer: Pas nécessaire avec Netplan.

>
> ```
> apt install ifenslave
> ```
>

## Instructions

> Because you have a private-private configuration for your NICs in OLA, you will be unable to SSH into the server. Thus, you will need to leverage the IPMI tool to access the server.

Reviewer: J'enlèverais toute cette section car elle ne s'appliquerait qu'au cas OLA (les 4 interfaces configurées dans le vRack). Pourtant l'exemple ne montre que 2 interfaces (celles qui sont publiques) configurées avec LACP.

Author: Est-ce que la connexion par IPMI est toujours indiquée ?

Reviewer: Je ne pense pas que ça soit strictement nécessaire. On peut éventuellement dire que c'est utile si on perd le réseau.

Author: https://github.com/ovh/docs/pull/6958/commits/9685976cc1a1369ffd781b682a17d8a7c4a29355

To do so, first log in to your [OVHcloud Control Panel](/links/manager). In the `Bare Metal Cloud`{.action} section, select your server from `Dedicated Servers`{.action} and click the `IPMI`{.action} tab (1).

Next, click the `From a Java applet (KVM)`{.action} button (2).

![remote kvm](images/remote_kvm2022.png){.thumbnail}

A JNLP program will download. Open the program to enter the IPMI. Log in using valid credentials for the server.

By default, using an OVHcloud template, the NICs will be named either *ethX* or *enoX*. If you are not using an OVHcloud template, you can find the names of your interfaces using the following command:

```bash
ip a
```

> [!primary]
>
> This command will yield numerous "interfaces." If you are having trouble determining which ones are your physical NICs, the first interface will still have the server's public IP address attached to it by default.

> >

Reviewer: Je vais te donner un exemple de sortie de cette commande car elle permet de déterminer l'adresse MAC à mettre dans la configuration.
De plus, il faudra ajouter un screenshot de l'espace client pour montrer comment trouver la seconde interface/MAC à mettre dans l'agrégation
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d4fa36bf-908a-4dbe-997d-2994f8f0b8eb)

Once we have determined the names of our two NICs, we will configure NIC bonding in the OS. 

> ### Fixed IP configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Static IP configuration
```

> Create the interfaces file in a text editor of your choice using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the contents of `/etc/netplan/50-cloud-init.yaml` with:
```

```bash

> vi /etc/netplan# cat 50-bond.yaml

Reviewer: J'enlèverais cette ligne et je garderais juste le truc qui dit de mettre telle config dans le fichier. ↑

```

To configure the bond interface, insert the following configuration:

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

network: 
    version: 2
    ethernets: 
        ens22f0np0:
            match: 

>                 macaddress: e8:eb:d3:f1:af:c8

Reviewer 2: Do not use existing mac address please, use 01:12:23:34:45:56, or something like that

        ens22f1np1:
            match: 
                macaddress: a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:c7
    bonds: 
        bond0:
            # MAC address of the server's main interface
            macaddress: a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:c6
            accept-ra: false
            addresses: 
                - 141.94.154.196/32
                - 2001:41d0:254:c400::/56
            routes: 
                - on-link: true
                  to: default
                  via: 100.64.0.1
                - on-link: true
                  to: default
                  via: fe80::1
            nameservers: 
                addresses: 
                - 2001:41d0:3:163::1
            interfaces: 
                - ens22f0np0
                - ens22f1np1
            parameters: 
                mode: 802.3ad
                mii-monitor-interval: 100
                down-delay: 200
                lacp-rate: slow
                transmit-hash-policy: layer3+4
```

### DHCP configuration

> Create the interfaces file in a text editor of your choice using the following command:

Reviewer: Même remarque que plus haut

```bash
vi /etc/netplan# cat 50-cloud-init.yaml_dhcp
```

To configure the bond interface, insert the following configuration:

```bash
network: 
    version: 2
    ethernets: 
        ens22f0np0:
            match: 
                macaddress: a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:c6
        ens22f1np1:
            match: 
                macaddress: a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:c7
    bonds: 
        bond0:
            # MAC address of the server's main interface
            macaddress: a1:b2:c3:d4:e5:c6
            accept-ra: false
            dhcp4: true
            addresses: 
                - 2001:41d0:254:c400::/56
            routes: 
                - on-link: true
                  to: default
                  via: fe80::1
            nameservers: 
                addresses: 
                - 2001:41d0:3:163::1
            interfaces: 
                - ens22f0np0
                - ens22f1np1
            parameters: 
                mode: 802.3ad
                mii-monitor-interval: 100
                down-delay: 200
                lacp-rate: slow
                transmit-hash-policy: layer3+4
```

### Testing and applying the configuration

You can test your configuration using this command:

```bash

> sudo netplan try

Reviewer: Ne fonctionne pas pour les bond malheureusement :/
On peut mettre une note pour dire qu'on ne peut pas utiliser netplan try avec un bond

Author: Primary ajouté

```

If it is correct, apply it using the following command:

```bash
sudo netplan apply
```

> This restart may take several minutes since it is building the bond interface.  To test that our bond is working, ping another server on the same vRack. If it works, you are all set. If it does not, double check your configurations or try rebooting the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may take several seconds for the bond interface to come up.
```
J'enlève le reste car un reboot n'aidera pas ici. Et on parle pas de vRack.
